# nf-core/cutandrun: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/)
and processes data using the following steps:

* [Preprocessing](#preprocessing)
    * [cat](#cat) - Merge re-sequenced FastQ files
    * [FastQC](#fastqc) - Raw read QC
    * [TrimGalore](#trimgalore) - Adapter and quality trimming    
* [Alignment](#alignment)
    * [Bowtie 2](#bowtie-2) - Align reads to target and spike-in genomes
* [Alignment post-processing](#alignment-post-processing)
    * [SAMtools](#samtools) - Quality filter, sort and index alignments
    * [picard MarkDuplicates](#picard-markduplicates) - Duplicate read marking
* [Other steps](#other-steps)
    * [Calculate scale factor](#scale-factor) - Normalise between samples
    * [BEDTools and bedGraphToBigWig](#bedtools-and-bedgraphtobigwig) - Create bigWig coverage files
* [Peak calling](#peak-calling)
    * [SEACR](#seacr) - Peak calling for high signal-noise data
* [Summary and quality control](#summary-and-quality-control)
    * [DESeq2](#deseq2) - PCA plot and differential peak analysis
    * [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Present QC for raw reads, alignment, read counting and sample similiarity  
    * [IGV](#igv) - Genome browser for viewing bigWigs in relation to genes 


<!-- * [FastQC](#fastqc) - Raw read QC
* [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
* [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution -->

## FastQC

[FastQC](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/) gives general quality metrics about your sequenced reads. It provides information about the quality score distribution across your reads, per base sequence content (%A/T/G/C), adapter contamination and overrepresented sequences.

For further reading and documentation see the [FastQC help pages](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/Help/).

**Output files:**

* `fastqc/`
  * `*_fastqc.html`: FastQC report containing quality metrics for your untrimmed raw fastq files.
* `fastqc/zips/`
  * `*_fastqc.zip`: Zip archive containing the FastQC report, tab-delimited data file and plot images.

> **NB:** The FastQC plots displayed in the MultiQC report shows _untrimmed_ reads. They may contain adapter sequence and potentially regions with low quality.

## MultiQC

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarizing all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability.

For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see [https://multiqc.info](https://multiqc.info).

**Output files:**

* `multiqc/`
  * `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  * `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  * `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

## Pipeline information

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.

**Output files:**

* `pipeline_info/`
  * Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  * Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.csv`.
  * Documentation for interpretation of results in HTML format: `results_description.html`.
